xii rwrnouuomow.

which was thus affordedto the house enabled him to return with credit
Once at Peterhorough, he set 10 work with vigour. If we may judge
from the book before us, hc searched into the old charterchests,
brought forth the evidences of ancient rights, claimed dues and duties
which had fallen into abeyauce during the presidency of his too-easy
predecessors, and maufully asserted to the very letter all the rights
of the abbey, as well against the crown as against private persons.
The ultimate result carmot be gathered from the present chronicle.
All that appears here is, that the abbot’s legal knowledge and the
eloquent pleading of William de Woodford generally enabled the
brethren to triumph, but that they were involved in enormous litiga·
tion. One great feature of the present book is the minuteness with
which the course of the various law suits is detailed The ahbaoy 01
Richard de London was 0110 continued term-time with 1110 monks of
Peterborough. The king contested their title to many of their courts
and privileges (pp. 44, 45); he strove to dispossess them of Scotere,
0110 01 their most valuable mauors (pp. 42, 43, 96); he denied their
right to have a prison in Peterhorough, and also tohold many of their

hundred courts (p. 125) In all these cases the abbey was successful.

Other persons sued them on many different accounts with 110 better

success. Disinherited heirs sued 101 lauds 01 advowsons given away
by their ancestors3 widows for dower; neighboun'ng gentrytoestablish
their boundaries3 and relatIves for the custody and marriage of
heire. 0110 very curicus cause, the particulam of which are given
at great length (pp. 47-52, 79-95), relates to a papal provision for
William Campion, apocr clerk. The cause was heard in the first
instance before the bishop 01 Linooln. After long inquiry the bishop
decided in favour of the claimant The abbot appealed to the arch-
bishop of Canterbury, who quashed the bishop’s adjudication, and

 

